# Mysterious-Family


## Table of Contents

- [Mysterious-Family](#mysterious-family)
  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Features](#features)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [Usage](#usage)
  - [Web Application](#web-application)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
  - [License](#license)
  - [Contributors](#contributors)

## Introduction

This project aims to store and represent a family tree using a tree data structure in Python. The values of the nodes in the tree are generated by hashing the names of family members using SHA256 algorithm, each node uniquely represent family members. The accompanying web application offers an intuitive interface for visualizing and interacting with the family tree.

## Features

- **Family Tree Implementation:** Utilizes a hash-based tree data structure to securely model relationships between family members.
- **SHA256 Hashing:** Ensures robust privacy by generating node values through the SHA256 hash function applied to family members' names.
- **Interactive Web Application:** Explore and visualize the family tree through an intuitive web interface with interactive features.
- **Import Tree from TXT File:** In case you want to import a custom Tree, this project includes a feature to import a family tree from a TXT file. To use this functionality:

1. Prepare a TXT file with the family tree structure like Tree.txt.
2. Go to the Import Tree page and Import the TXT file.

This will update the family tree in the system with the structure provided in the TXT file.

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.x
- Flask (for the web application)
- Dash

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/MahdiPorheydarii/Mysterious-Family.git
    cd Mysterious-Family
    ```

2. Install dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Web Application

To run the web application and visualize the family tree:

1. Run the Dash app:

    ```bash
    python main.py
    ```

2. Open your web browser and go to `http://127.0.0.1:8050/` to view the family tree.

## Contributing
Thank you for considering contributing to the Family Tree project!

- **Bug Reports:** Check existing issues and provide clear steps to reproduce the bug.
- **Feature Requests:** Check existing issues and submit new ideas with a brief description.
- **Code Contributions:** Fork, branch, make changes, and submit a pull request with a concise description.

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).
